---
title: Introduction
description: Learn about Shelve and how it can help you manage your environment variables and secrets.
---

### Welcome to Shelve

Shelve is an open-source environment management platform designed to revolutionize how development teams handle their environment variables and secrets.

Born from the frustration of sharing sensitive information through insecure channels, Shelve provides a secure, collaborative, and developer-friendly solution for managing environment configurations across projects and teams.

### Why Shelve?

- Simple Setup: One login command to access all your projects
- Team Focused: Built for modern development teams with seamless collaboration features and granular permissions.
- Secure: Keep your secrets safe with end-to-end encryption and secure sharing mechanisms (SHA-256 hashing).
- Open Source: Completely free and self-hostable, giving you full control over your data.
- Developer Experience: CLI-first approach.

### Key Features

Environment Management
- Centralized environment variable management across all your projects
- Support for multiple environments (development, staging, production) and even custom environments
- Secure variable sharing within teams
- Easy import/export functionality

- Team Collaboration
- Role-based access control
- Team workspaces
- Activity monitoring
- Secure member invitations

Integrations
- GitHub secrets synchronization
- One-click deployment using Coolify
- OAuth authentication
- More integrations coming soon

Developer Tools
- Powerful CLI for everyday operations
- Docker support for self-hosting
- Detailed documentation and examples


### Getting Started

Ready to improve your environment management workflow? Head over to our [Installation](/getting-started/installation) guide to begin your journey with Shelve.

### Community and Support

Shelve is built by developers for developers. We believe in the power of community and open source. Join our growing community:
- Star us on [GitHub](https://github.com/hugorcd/shelve)
- Follow updates on [Twitter](https://x.com/shelvecloud)
- Report issues on [Github](https://github.com/hugorcd/shelve/issues)

Whether you're a solo developer or part of a large team, Shelve adapts to your needs while maintaining security and simplicity at its core.
